# WireGuard

Setting up WireGuard to route traffic in your home network.

# Pre-requisite to test this project

* docker, docker-compose are installed
* Admin access to your router
* An extra device (ex.: a smartphone)

# Using in demo mode

1. Configure your public ip
    * Can easily be googled, you can also use http://checkip.amazonaws.com
    * Update value `MY_PUBLIC_FACING_IP_OR_HOST=...` in file `docker-compose.yml`.
2. Configure your modem/router
    * Enable port forwarding of UDP port **44446** to your server at port **44444**.
    * Warning: Each router brand/model have their own set of features and UI; use a search engine, good luck!
3. Start the server
    * Run `docker-compose up` to start the server, it should prints out a QR code.
4. Testing it with a client (ex.: your smartphone)
    * First, disable wifi on it and check that your have a different public IP than your home network.
    * Install the WireGuard client on it, and click add, then scan the QR Code generated by the server.
    * Enable the VPN, and then check again what is public IP, it should now be the same as your home network. Congrats!

# Using in external config mode

1. Update `MY_DEMO_SERVER=false` in `docker-compose.yml`
2. Generate your server keys and client keys, by calling `createKeyPair` multiple time. Ex.:
    ```shell
    docker-compose run wireguard --entrypoint bash
    source utility.sh
    createKeyPair
    # It will print below:
    #Public: fC2NU... # This value can be inferred from private key, only printed for information only.
    #Private: 6Ji7H... # This value can be used in MY_WG_PRIVATE_KEY or in json config '.client.myUser.private'
    #(For client only) Pre-shared key: g2SE... # This value is for json config in '.client.myUser.pre_share'
    ```
3. Configure `MY_WG_PRIVATE_KEY` and `MY_WG_JSON_CONFIG` env. variable in `docker-compose.yml`
    * Ex.: `MY_WG_JSON_CONFIG={"client":{"yourUserName":{"ipv4":"10.15.15.2","private":"...","pre_share":"..."}}}`
        * Each client must be given a unique ip within the network defined.

Notes: Client config files will be generated as `/etc/wireguard/client-${yourClientName}-qrcode.txt`
and `/etc/wireguard/client-${yourClientName}.conf`.

# Potential issues

* This project hardcode the VPN on network `10.15.15.0/24`, it might conflict with your pre-existing networks.
* This project hardcode network interface to `eth0`, yours might have a different name.

# FYI

* The project https://github.com/pivpn/pivpn has many interesting scripts, ex.:
    * Detecting which network interface to use
    * Auto-picking ip addresses for clients given an ip network
    * IPv6 support
    * etc.

<details><summary>Additional info</summary>

* The prefix `MY_` was used on env. variables, so it's clearer they are meant for this code only, and aren't relevant
  for other code.
* Port numbers could all be the same, but distinct values were used; to not confound them; to emphasize their
  independence from each other.

</details>